.\" Man page for gghstats(1)
.TH GGHSTATS 1 "July 2026" "gghstats v0.10.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gghstats \- self-hosted GitHub repository traffic dashboard and CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gghstats
.I command
.RB [ flags ]
.PP
.B gghstats serve
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR PORT ]
.RB [ \-\-sync-workers
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-open ]
.PP
.B gghstats run
.RI (alias for \fBserve\fR)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gghstats
collects GitHub traffic metrics (views, clones, referrers, paths) into a local
SQLite database so history is kept beyond GitHub's 14-day window. It can run as
a web dashboard with scheduled sync, or as CLI commands for fetch, report, and
export.
.PP
Server mode (\fBserve\fR) requires a GitHub personal access token with access to
the repositories you want to track.
.PP
Configuration uses environment variables (prefix
.BR GGHSTATS_ ).
On Linux servers under systemd, set them in
.IR /etc/gghstats/gghstats.env
(see
.IR contrib/gghstats.env.example ).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B serve
Start the HTTP dashboard and background sync scheduler.
.TP
.B run
Alias for \fBserve\fR (local convenience).
.TP
.B fetch
Download traffic for one repository into the database.
.TP
.B report
Print a traffic summary in the terminal.
.TP
.B export
Export traffic data to CSV.
.TP
.B backup
Write a consistent SQLite snapshot with \fBVACUUM INTO\fR
(\fB\-\-output\fR required).
.TP
.B restore
Replace the database file from a backup
(\fB\-\-input\fR required). Stop \fBserve\fR first if the DB is in use.
.TP
.B alert test
Send a synthetic alert to configured sinks
(\fBGGHSTATS_ALERT_SINKS\fR) without starting \fBserve\fR or syncing.
Optional \fB\-\-kind traffic|ops\fR and \fB\-\-sink slack|webhook|loki|smtp\fR.
Exit \fB4\fR if delivery fails. See SPEC §8.8.
.TP
.B version
Print build version information.
.SH CLI FLAGS
(fetch, report, export, backup, restore, alert test)
.TP
.BR \-\-kind ", " traffic|ops
(\fBalert test\fR) Synthetic payload kind (default \fBtraffic\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-sink ", " TYPE
(\fBalert test\fR) Only send to this sink type (\fBslack\fR, \fBwebhook\fR, \fBloki\fR, or \fBsmtp\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-repo ", " owner/repo
Repository (or \fBGGHSTATS_REPO\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-token ", " TOKEN
GitHub token (or \fBGGHSTATS_GITHUB_TOKEN\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-db ", " PATH
SQLite database path (default: \fB./data/gghstats.db\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-output ", " PATH
(\fBbackup\fR) Destination snapshot file.
.TP
.BR \-\-input ", " PATH
(\fBrestore\fR) Backup file to copy onto \fB\-\-db\fR.
.SH SERVE FLAGS
.TP
.BR \-\-port ", " PORT
Listen port (overrides \fBGGHSTATS_PORT\fR; default \fB8080\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-sync-workers ", " N
Concurrent repositories synced per cycle (overrides \fBGGHSTATS_SYNC_WORKERS\fR;
default \fB4\fR). Lower if you hit GitHub secondary rate limits on large accounts.
.TP
.BR \-\-open
Open the default browser when the server is ready (or \fBGGHSTATS_OPEN_BROWSER=1\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-demo
Serve the dashboard with sample SQLite data; no GitHub token and no sync
(or \fBGGHSTATS_DEMO=true\fR).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_GITHUB_TOKEN
GitHub personal access token (required for \fBserve\fR unless demo mode).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_DEMO
When \fBtrue\fR, enable demo mode (sample data; no token; sync disabled).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_DB
SQLite path (default: \fB./data/gghstats.db\fR, relative to the process working directory).
Daemons should set an absolute path (e.g. \fB/var/lib/gghstats/gghstats.db\fR).
A user-config default (XDG / platform equivalent) is planned for v1.0; until then \fBGGHSTATS_DB\fR wins.
See README "Data directory (SQLite paths)".
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_HOST
Bind address (default: \fB127.0.0.1\fR; use \fB0.0.0.0\fR in Docker).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_PORT
Listen port (default: \fB8080\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_FILTER
Repository filter (default: \fB*\fR = all accessible).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_SYNC_INTERVAL
Sync frequency (default: \fB1h\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_SYNC_ON_STARTUP
Run sync before serving (default: \fBtrue\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_SYNC_WORKERS
Concurrent repositories synced per cycle (default: \fB4\fR).
Sync uses exponential-backoff retries with full jitter on transient
errors (HTTP 429, 403 rate-limited, 5xx) and honors
\fBX-RateLimit-Reset\fR when the GitHub API advertises a near-future reset.
Failures are classified per step (views, clones, referrers, paths,
stars, repo metadata) and exposed as \fBgghstats_sync_errors_total{kind}\fR.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_OPEN_BROWSER
Open the default browser on startup (default: \fBfalse\fR; same as \fB\-\-open\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_API_TOKEN
Protect JSON API routes; optional for manual sync from the UI.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_BADGE_PUBLIC
Allow public badge SVG URLs (default: \fBtrue\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_LOG_LEVEL
\fBdebug\fR, \fBinfo\fR (default), \fBwarn\fR, or \fBerror\fR.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_METRICS
Set to \fBfalse\fR to disable Prometheus \fB/metrics\fR.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_RATE_LIMIT_ENABLED
Set to \fBfalse\fR to disable per-IP rate limiting (default: \fBtrue\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS
Requests per time window before limiting per IP (default: \fB120\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_RATE_LIMIT_PERIOD
Time window for rate limiting as a Go duration (default: \fB1m\fR).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_RATE_LIMIT_BURST
Maximum burst of requests before smoothing (default: \fB20\fR).
Exempt paths: \fB/metrics\fR, \fB/api/v1/healthz\fR, \fB/api/v1/badge/*\fR (README embeds).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_ALERTS_ENABLED
When \fBtrue\fR, evaluate alert rules after sync (default \fBfalse\fR).
Requires at least one valid entry in \fBGGHSTATS_ALERT_SINKS\fR.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_ALERT_SINKS
JSON array of sinks (\fBslack\fR, \fBwebhook\fR, \fBloki\fR, \fBsmtp\fR). Secrets via
\fB*_env\fR fields. Used by \fBserve\fR and by \fBgghstats alert test\fR.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_ALERT_RULES
JSON array of traffic, \fBstar milestone\fR, and ops rules (evaluated after sync when
alerts are enabled). Milestone example:
\fB{"repo":"owner/repo","metric":"stars","milestones":[100,500],"fire":"once"}\fR
— each threshold notifies at most once (SPEC §8.3).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_WHITELIST
Comma-separated IPs/CIDRs allowed to access the server (empty = all allowed).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_WHITELIST_PATHS
Comma-separated path prefixes where the whitelist applies (empty = all routes).
Badge URLs under \fB/api/v1/badge/\fR remain public even when \fB/api/\fR is listed.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_HEAD_HTML
Arbitrary HTML injected just before \fB</head>\fR on every HTML page
(e.g. analytics scripts, extra CSS). Default: empty.
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_REVERSE_PROXY_RULES
JSON array of reverse-proxy rules. Each rule is an object with:
.RS
.TP
.B local
Local path prefix (e.g. \fB"/kiko"\fR).
.TP
.B url
Remote backend base URL (e.g. \fB"https://events.example.com"\fR).
.TP
.B headers
Optional map of extra headers to inject (e.g. \fB{"Host": "kiko-backend"}\fR).
.RE
Example:
.RS
.EX
GGHSTATS_REVERSE_PROXY_RULES=[
  {"local":"/kiko","url":"https://events.example.com","headers":{"Host":"kiko-backend"}}
]
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_ENABLE_COLLECTOR
Set to \fBtrue\fR to enable anonymous startup telemetry
(sends non-identifying feature flags only). Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled).
.TP
.B GGHSTATS_ENABLE_UPDATE_CHECK
Set to \fBfalse\fR to disable the startup release check against the
GitHub API (warns when a newer gghstats version exists).
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled). Can be enabled independently of
\fBGGHSTATS_ENABLE_COLLECTOR\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run the dashboard locally:
.RS
.EX
export GGHSTATS_GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxx
gghstats run --open
.EE
Opens \fIhttp://localhost:8080\fR in the default browser (\fBrun\fR is an alias for \fBserve\fR).
.RE
.TP
Fetch one repository:
.RS
.EX
gghstats fetch --repo owner/repo --token "$GGHSTATS_GITHUB_TOKEN"
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.IR /etc/gghstats/gghstats.env
Environment file for systemd (\fBserve\fR). Installed by .deb/.rpm; see
.IR contrib/gghstats.env.example .
.PP
systemd unit:
.IR contrib/systemd/gghstats.service
(see
.IR contrib/systemd/README.md ).
.PP
macOS LaunchAgent:
.IR contrib/launchd/com.github.hrodrig.gghstats.plist
(see
.IR contrib/launchd/README.md ).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, non-zero on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR https://github.com/hrodrig/gghstats
.SH AUTHOR
Hermes Rodriguez
